​In the last class, we looked at a simple comparative experiment involving ​two different recipes or two different formulations of Portland cement mortar. ​And we saw that there might be an indication in the sample data ​that the tension bond strength was different in the two recipes. ​And I mentioned that we're going to use a statistical methods to try to ​investigate this conjecture. ​The framework that we typically use for ​solving these kinds of problems is called statistical hypothesis testing. ​The origins of this methodology, go back to the early 1900s and ​actually even before that. ​But it's a well-established technique and ​one that's highly useful in looking at data from planned experiments. ​Now, we're going to initially use a procedure called the two-sample t-test. 
​But as we go through this material from from chapter 2 or ​module 2 of the course, we're going to look at a couple of variations of this ​two-sample t-test procedure. ​Here's a picture that tries to describe or ​were illustrate visually, the hypothesis testing framework. ​The two diagrams that you see at the top of the page here ​are probability distributions. ​And the probability distribution on the left represents ​the population of measurements from factor level 1 or treatment 1. ​And on the right, that's the population of measurements ​from factor level 2 or treatment level 2. ​In our problem, ​each of these represent a different formulation of the Portland cement mortar. ​Now, we're going to assume that these populations are normal random variables. 
​They're normally distributed observations. ​The mean of sample of population 1 is mu1 and ​the variance of that distribution is sigma 1 square. ​And on the right, those observations are also normally distributed, ​and that is a normal distribution with mean mu2 and variance sigma 2 square. ​So this is the sampling situation. ​This is the situation that we assume exist that we're studying. ​The key thing here is that we're sampling from a normal distribution. ​What we want to investigate is the claim that the means of these ​two populations are the same. 
​Now, the way we structure that is in terms of a pair of statistical hypotheses. ​H-naught is called the null hypothesis. ​And that's the statement that says the two means are indeed equal. ​So H-naught, mu1 equal to mu2 is the null hypothesis, ​and H1 is the alternative hypothesis and that's the other state of nature. ​And in this case, it would be that the two means are not the same. ​How do we estimate these parameters? ​We have a mean mu in each population and ​we have a variance sigma square in each population. 
​The way we do this is by using the sample average ​y-bar to estimate the population mean. ​Now, the way you calculate the sample average is easy. ​You simply add all the observations in the sample together and ​divide by the sample size n. ​And the sample variance is also very easy to calculate. ​One simply computes the differences between each observation in the sample and ​the sample average y-bar squares those differences add them up. ​And then we divide that sum by n- 1 and that estimates the variance sigma square. ​These are straightforward calculations. 
​You can you can do these on many pocket calculators automatically. ​And of course statistical software does this for you without any real difficulty. ​Here's the results. ​And these calculations are done in the book if you want to look at them. ​For the new recipe, the modified mortar, the average bond ​strength is 16.76 and the sample variance is 0.1. ​The sample standard deviation is 0.316 and of course the sample size was 10. ​For the unmodified mortar, the original recipe, ​the sample average y-bar 2 is 17.06 and the sample variance is 0.061. 
​And the sample standard deviation is 0.248. ​Again, the sample size is 10. ​Now, you notice that those two standard deviations are not ​exactly the same but they're fairly close together and that's consistent with what ​we saw in the dot diagrams and in the stem-and-leaf plots for these two samples. ​We saw that there was a pretty sizably noticeable difference in the averages or ​in the means but the spread or variability in the samples was pretty similar. ​And that's what we're seeing reflected in the summary statistics in this display. ​So how does the two-sample t-test work? ​We're going to use the two-sample t-test to test this null hypothesis that says, ​the two means mu1 and mu2 are equal. 
​How does this procedure work? ​Well, it uses the sample means to actually draw conclusions or ​draw inferences about the population means. ​And specifically, it uses the difference in those two means. ​Y-bar 1 minus y-bar 2. ​Well, if we plug in the sample data here, the difference in the sample ​averages y-bar 1- ybar 2 turns out to be -0.28. ​So that's the difference in the sample means. ​The way the t-test works is we then divide that difference in ​the sample means by the standard deviation of the difference in sample means. 
​So this ratio becomes a measure of how different ​the sample means are in standard deviation units. ​That's how this works. ​Well, we know that the standard deviation of an average sigma square of y-bar is ​sigma square the variance of an individual observation divided by n, the sample size. ​That's that's basically Statistics that we've probably seen before. ​The standard deviation of the difference in averages, sigma square of y-bar 1- ​y-bar 2 is the sum of those sample variances, ​sigma 1 square over n1 plus sigma 2 square over n2, ​as long as the two averages y-bar 1 and y-bar 2 are independent. ​And I think we can comfortably assume independence here, because these ​are two completely different samples that were generated at different times. ​They're random samples and the treatments ​were applied essentially in random sequence. 
​So independence is probably a very reasonable assumption here. ​So this statement here suggest ​a statistic of the form that you see here. ​This ratio is z-naught is y-bar 1- y-bar 2, ​that's the difference in sample averages. ​And the denominator of that ratio is the square root of ​sigma 1 square over n1 + sigma 2 square over n2. ​That is the standard deviation of the difference in sample means. ​Now, how do we use this information? ​Well, if the variances were actually known, ​if we actually knew sigma 1 square and sigma 2 square, it turns out that ​this ratio z0 follows a normal distribution. 
​And in fact, if the two means are equal, if mu1 is equal to mu2, ​this ratio would have a standard normal distribution. ​That is a normal distribution with mean 0 and variance 1. ​And we could use that as the basis of a statistical test. ​And we're going to see how that works, right now. ​How do we do it? ​Here's the way it works. ​Now, we don't know the variances or standard deviations but ​let's assume we do. 
​Let's just make up a number. ​Let's let sigma 1 and sigma 2 both be equal to 0.3 just for ​purposes of illustration, okay? ​Soon as we know those two numbers, we can plug them into our test statistic z0. ​It's what we call z-naught at test statistic. ​Okay, we plug in the numbers, we do the arithmetic, and ​that value of z-naught turns out to be -2.09. ​Okay, now here's how we use that information. ​How unusual is this value of z-naught = -2.09 ​if the two population means are really equal? 
​Well, remember z-naught, if the means are equal, has a normal 01 distribution. ​Well, in a normal 01 distribution, ​it turns out that 95% of the probability or ​area under that normal curve falls between the values 1.96 and -1.96. ​1.96 is called the upper 2 1/2 percent point ​of the normal distributions denoted z sub 0.025, ​and -1.96 is the lower 0.025 ​percentage point of the standard normal. ​So if the means are equal, 95% of the time, ​you would expect to see and observe value of z-naught ​that's in that interval, -1.96 up to +1.96. ​So what about this value that we just calculated, -2.09? ​That's pretty unusual, isn't it, if the means are equal. ​This is a value that would only occur less than 5% of the time ​if the population means were equal. 
​So this is a fairly strong indication that those means are not equal. ​You can find these z values from any standard normal table. ​This is a standard normal cumulative distribution table, and ​it plots values of z from 0 up to about 3.99. ​Most standard normal tables are organized like this one. ​They only give you areas to the left of positive z scores or positive z values. ​Now, that isn't really much of a problem, ​because the normal distribution is symmetric and so areas to ​the left of a negative z are the same as the areas to the right of a positive z. ​So it's very easy to actually use these tables to show ​you how I got that value of 1.96. 
​Simply look at the table and ​scan the table until you find 1.96. ​Well, here's 1.96 right there. ​The 1.9 row and the .06 column. ​And if you look at the entry in the body of the table in 0.975, ​that is the probability or area to the left of 1.96 on the standard normal curve. ​So the upper alpha percentage point z of 0.025 would be 1- that. ​So that's the upper 2 1/2 percent point of the standard normal distribution. ​And you can use the normal table to calculate these probabilities, or ​to find these probabilities, or z score values very easily. 
​So if the variances were known, what would we conclude? ​We would conclude that we should reject this null hypothesis, and ​a statistician would say we would reject this hypothesis, ​this null hypothesis at the 5% level of significance. ​Because the calculated value of -2.09 is outside the + or ​-1.96 range that corresponds to 5% significance. ​This is called a fixed significance level test. ​Because we compared the value of the test statistic to a critical value, in this ​case 1.96, that we typically select in advance before we run the experiment. ​And the standard normal distribution is called the reference distribution for ​this test. ​Now, there's another way to do this. 
​It's very popular and it's called the P-value approach. ​The P-value is basically the observed actual significance level. ​And for the Z-test, it's really easy to find the P-value. ​And I'll show you how to do that next time. 
​In the last class, we looked at a simple comparative experiment involving ​two different recipes or two different formulations of Portland cement mortar. ​And we saw that there might be an indication in the sample data ​that the tension bond strength was different in the two recipes. ​And I mentioned that we're going to use a statistical methods to try to ​investigate this conjecture. ​The framework that we typically use for ​solving these kinds of problems is called statistical hypothesis testing. ​The origins of this methodology, go back to the early 1900s and ​actually even before that. ​But it's a well-established technique and ​one that's highly useful in looking at data from planned experiments. ​Now, we're going to initially use a procedure called the two-sample t-test. ​But as we go through this material from from chapter 2 or ​module 2 of the course, we're going to look at a couple of variations of this ​two-sample t-test procedure. ​Here's a picture that tries to describe or ​were illustrate visually, the hypothesis testing framework. ​The two diagrams that you see at the top of the page here ​are probability distributions. ​And the probability distribution on the left represents ​the population of measurements from factor level 1 or treatment 1. ​And on the right, that's the population of measurements ​from factor level 2 or treatment level 2. ​In our problem, ​each of these represent a different formulation of the Portland cement mortar. ​Now, we're going to assume that these populations are normal random variables. ​They're normally distributed observations. ​The mean of sample of population 1 is mu1 and ​the variance of that distribution is sigma 1 square. ​And on the right, those observations are also normally distributed, ​and that is a normal distribution with mean mu2 and variance sigma 2 square. ​So this is the sampling situation. ​This is the situation that we assume exist that we're studying. ​The key thing here is that we're sampling from a normal distribution. ​What we want to investigate is the claim that the means of these ​two populations are the same. ​Now, the way we structure that is in terms of a pair of statistical hypotheses. ​H-naught is called the null hypothesis. ​And that's the statement that says the two means are indeed equal. ​So H-naught, mu1 equal to mu2 is the null hypothesis, ​and H1 is the alternative hypothesis and that's the other state of nature. ​And in this case, it would be that the two means are not the same. ​How do we estimate these parameters? ​We have a mean mu in each population and ​we have a variance sigma square in each population. ​The way we do this is by using the sample average ​y-bar to estimate the population mean. ​Now, the way you calculate the sample average is easy. ​You simply add all the observations in the sample together and ​divide by the sample size n. ​And the sample variance is also very easy to calculate. ​One simply computes the differences between each observation in the sample and ​the sample average y-bar squares those differences add them up. ​And then we divide that sum by n- 1 and that estimates the variance sigma square. ​These are straightforward calculations. ​You can you can do these on many pocket calculators automatically. ​And of course statistical software does this for you without any real difficulty. ​Here's the results. ​And these calculations are done in the book if you want to look at them. ​For the new recipe, the modified mortar, the average bond ​strength is 16.76 and the sample variance is 0.1. ​The sample standard deviation is 0.316 and of course the sample size was 10. ​For the unmodified mortar, the original recipe, ​the sample average y-bar 2 is 17.06 and the sample variance is 0.061. ​And the sample standard deviation is 0.248. ​Again, the sample size is 10. ​Now, you notice that those two standard deviations are not ​exactly the same but they're fairly close together and that's consistent with what ​we saw in the dot diagrams and in the stem-and-leaf plots for these two samples. ​We saw that there was a pretty sizably noticeable difference in the averages or ​in the means but the spread or variability in the samples was pretty similar. ​And that's what we're seeing reflected in the summary statistics in this display. ​So how does the two-sample t-test work? ​We're going to use the two-sample t-test to test this null hypothesis that says, ​the two means mu1 and mu2 are equal. ​How does this procedure work? ​Well, it uses the sample means to actually draw conclusions or ​draw inferences about the population means. ​And specifically, it uses the difference in those two means. ​Y-bar 1 minus y-bar 2. ​Well, if we plug in the sample data here, the difference in the sample ​averages y-bar 1- ybar 2 turns out to be -0.28. ​So that's the difference in the sample means. ​The way the t-test works is we then divide that difference in ​the sample means by the standard deviation of the difference in sample means. ​So this ratio becomes a measure of how different ​the sample means are in standard deviation units. ​That's how this works. ​Well, we know that the standard deviation of an average sigma square of y-bar is ​sigma square the variance of an individual observation divided by n, the sample size. ​That's that's basically Statistics that we've probably seen before. ​The standard deviation of the difference in averages, sigma square of y-bar 1- ​y-bar 2 is the sum of those sample variances, ​sigma 1 square over n1 plus sigma 2 square over n2, ​as long as the two averages y-bar 1 and y-bar 2 are independent. ​And I think we can comfortably assume independence here, because these ​are two completely different samples that were generated at different times. ​They're random samples and the treatments ​were applied essentially in random sequence. ​So independence is probably a very reasonable assumption here. ​So this statement here suggest ​a statistic of the form that you see here. ​This ratio is z-naught is y-bar 1- y-bar 2, ​that's the difference in sample averages. ​And the denominator of that ratio is the square root of ​sigma 1 square over n1 + sigma 2 square over n2. ​That is the standard deviation of the difference in sample means. ​Now, how do we use this information? ​Well, if the variances were actually known, ​if we actually knew sigma 1 square and sigma 2 square, it turns out that ​this ratio z0 follows a normal distribution. ​And in fact, if the two means are equal, if mu1 is equal to mu2, ​this ratio would have a standard normal distribution. ​That is a normal distribution with mean 0 and variance 1. ​And we could use that as the basis of a statistical test. ​And we're going to see how that works, right now. ​How do we do it? ​Here's the way it works. ​Now, we don't know the variances or standard deviations but ​let's assume we do. ​Let's just make up a number. ​Let's let sigma 1 and sigma 2 both be equal to 0.3 just for ​purposes of illustration, okay? ​Soon as we know those two numbers, we can plug them into our test statistic z0. ​It's what we call z-naught at test statistic. ​Okay, we plug in the numbers, we do the arithmetic, and ​that value of z-naught turns out to be -2.09. ​Okay, now here's how we use that information. ​How unusual is this value of z-naught = -2.09 ​if the two population means are really equal? ​Well, remember z-naught, if the means are equal, has a normal 01 distribution. ​Well, in a normal 01 distribution, ​it turns out that 95% of the probability or ​area under that normal curve falls between the values 1.96 and -1.96. ​1.96 is called the upper 2 1/2 percent point ​of the normal distributions denoted z sub 0.025, ​and -1.96 is the lower 0.025 ​percentage point of the standard normal. ​So if the means are equal, 95% of the time, ​you would expect to see and observe value of z-naught ​that's in that interval, -1.96 up to +1.96. ​So what about this value that we just calculated, -2.09? ​That's pretty unusual, isn't it, if the means are equal. ​This is a value that would only occur less than 5% of the time ​if the population means were equal. ​So this is a fairly strong indication that those means are not equal. ​You can find these z values from any standard normal table. ​This is a standard normal cumulative distribution table, and ​it plots values of z from 0 up to about 3.99. ​Most standard normal tables are organized like this one. ​They only give you areas to the left of positive z scores or positive z values. ​Now, that isn't really much of a problem, ​because the normal distribution is symmetric and so areas to ​the left of a negative z are the same as the areas to the right of a positive z. ​So it's very easy to actually use these tables to show ​you how I got that value of 1.96. ​Simply look at the table and ​scan the table until you find 1.96. ​Well, here's 1.96 right there. ​The 1.9 row and the .06 column. ​And if you look at the entry in the body of the table in 0.975, ​that is the probability or area to the left of 1.96 on the standard normal curve. ​So the upper alpha percentage point z of 0.025 would be 1- that. ​So that's the upper 2 1/2 percent point of the standard normal distribution. ​And you can use the normal table to calculate these probabilities, or ​to find these probabilities, or z score values very easily. ​So if the variances were known, what would we conclude? ​We would conclude that we should reject this null hypothesis, and ​a statistician would say we would reject this hypothesis, ​this null hypothesis at the 5% level of significance. ​Because the calculated value of -2.09 is outside the + or ​-1.96 range that corresponds to 5% significance. ​This is called a fixed significance level test. ​Because we compared the value of the test statistic to a critical value, in this ​case 1.96, that we typically select in advance before we run the experiment. ​And the standard normal distribution is called the reference distribution for ​this test. ​Now, there's another way to do this. ​It's very popular and it's called the P-value approach. ​The P-value is basically the observed actual significance level. ​And for the Z-test, it's really easy to find the P-value. ​And I'll show you how to do that next time. ​In the last class, we looked at a simple comparative experiment involving ​two different recipes or two different formulations of Portland cement mortar. ​And we saw that there might be an indication in the sample data ​that the tension bond strength was different in the two recipes. ​And I mentioned that we're going to use a statistical methods to try to ​investigate this conjecture. ​The framework that we typically use for ​solving these kinds of problems is called statistical hypothesis testing. ​The origins of this methodology, go back to the early 1900s and ​actually even before that. ​But it's a well-established technique and ​one that's highly useful in looking at data from planned experiments. ​Now, we're going to initially use a procedure called the two-sample t-test. ​But as we go through this material from from chapter 2 or ​module 2 of the course, we're going to look at a couple of variations of this ​two-sample t-test procedure. ​Here's a picture that tries to describe or ​were illustrate visually, the hypothesis testing framework. ​The two diagrams that you see at the top of the page here ​are probability distributions. ​And the probability distribution on the left represents ​the population of measurements from factor level 1 or treatment 1. ​And on the right, that's the population of measurements ​from factor level 2 or treatment level 2. ​In our problem, ​each of these represent a different formulation of the Portland cement mortar. ​Now, we're going to assume that these populations are normal random variables. ​They're normally distributed observations. ​The mean of sample of population 1 is mu1 and ​the variance of that distribution is sigma 1 square. ​And on the right, those observations are also normally distributed, ​and that is a normal distribution with mean mu2 and variance sigma 2 square. ​So this is the sampling situation. ​This is the situation that we assume exist that we're studying. ​The key thing here is that we're sampling from a normal distribution. ​What we want to investigate is the claim that the means of these ​two populations are the same. ​Now, the way we structure that is in terms of a pair of statistical hypotheses. ​H-naught is called the null hypothesis. ​And that's the statement that says the two means are indeed equal. ​So H-naught, mu1 equal to mu2 is the null hypothesis, ​and H1 is the alternative hypothesis and that's the other state of nature. ​And in this case, it would be that the two means are not the same. ​How do we estimate these parameters? ​We have a mean mu in each population and ​we have a variance sigma square in each population. ​The way we do this is by using the sample average ​y-bar to estimate the population mean. ​Now, the way you calculate the sample average is easy. ​You simply add all the observations in the sample together and ​divide by the sample size n. ​And the sample variance is also very easy to calculate. ​One simply computes the differences between each observation in the sample and ​the sample average y-bar squares those differences add them up. ​And then we divide that sum by n- 1 and that estimates the variance sigma square. ​These are straightforward calculations. ​You can you can do these on many pocket calculators automatically. ​And of course statistical software does this for you without any real difficulty. ​Here's the results. ​And these calculations are done in the book if you want to look at them. ​For the new recipe, the modified mortar, the average bond ​strength is 16.76 and the sample variance is 0.1. ​The sample standard deviation is 0.316 and of course the sample size was 10. ​For the unmodified mortar, the original recipe, ​the sample average y-bar 2 is 17.06 and the sample variance is 0.061. ​And the sample standard deviation is 0.248. ​Again, the sample size is 10. ​Now, you notice that those two standard deviations are not ​exactly the same but they're fairly close together and that's consistent with what ​we saw in the dot diagrams and in the stem-and-leaf plots for these two samples. ​We saw that there was a pretty sizably noticeable difference in the averages or ​in the means but the spread or variability in the samples was pretty similar. ​And that's what we're seeing reflected in the summary statistics in this display. ​So how does the two-sample t-test work? ​We're going to use the two-sample t-test to test this null hypothesis that says, ​the two means mu1 and mu2 are equal. ​How does this procedure work? ​Well, it uses the sample means to actually draw conclusions or ​draw inferences about the population means. ​And specifically, it uses the difference in those two means. ​Y-bar 1 minus y-bar 2. ​Well, if we plug in the sample data here, the difference in the sample ​averages y-bar 1- ybar 2 turns out to be -0.28. ​So that's the difference in the sample means. ​The way the t-test works is we then divide that difference in ​the sample means by the standard deviation of the difference in sample means. ​So this ratio becomes a measure of how different ​the sample means are in standard deviation units. ​That's how this works. ​Well, we know that the standard deviation of an average sigma square of y-bar is ​sigma square the variance of an individual observation divided by n, the sample size. ​That's that's basically Statistics that we've probably seen before. ​The standard deviation of the difference in averages, sigma square of y-bar 1- ​y-bar 2 is the sum of those sample variances, ​sigma 1 square over n1 plus sigma 2 square over n2, ​as long as the two averages y-bar 1 and y-bar 2 are independent. ​And I think we can comfortably assume independence here, because these ​are two completely different samples that were generated at different times. ​They're random samples and the treatments ​were applied essentially in random sequence. ​So independence is probably a very reasonable assumption here. ​So this statement here suggest ​a statistic of the form that you see here. ​This ratio is z-naught is y-bar 1- y-bar 2, ​that's the difference in sample averages. ​And the denominator of that ratio is the square root of ​sigma 1 square over n1 + sigma 2 square over n2. ​That is the standard deviation of the difference in sample means. ​Now, how do we use this information? ​Well, if the variances were actually known, ​if we actually knew sigma 1 square and sigma 2 square, it turns out that ​this ratio z0 follows a normal distribution. ​And in fact, if the two means are equal, if mu1 is equal to mu2, ​this ratio would have a standard normal distribution. ​That is a normal distribution with mean 0 and variance 1. ​And we could use that as the basis of a statistical test. ​And we're going to see how that works, right now. ​How do we do it? ​Here's the way it works. ​Now, we don't know the variances or standard deviations but ​let's assume we do. ​Let's just make up a number. ​Let's let sigma 1 and sigma 2 both be equal to 0.3 just for ​purposes of illustration, okay? ​Soon as we know those two numbers, we can plug them into our test statistic z0. ​It's what we call z-naught at test statistic. ​Okay, we plug in the numbers, we do the arithmetic, and ​that value of z-naught turns out to be -2.09. ​Okay, now here's how we use that information. ​How unusual is this value of z-naught = -2.09 ​if the two population means are really equal? ​Well, remember z-naught, if the means are equal, has a normal 01 distribution. ​Well, in a normal 01 distribution, ​it turns out that 95% of the probability or ​area under that normal curve falls between the values 1.96 and -1.96. ​1.96 is called the upper 2 1/2 percent point ​of the normal distributions denoted z sub 0.025, ​and -1.96 is the lower 0.025 ​percentage point of the standard normal. ​So if the means are equal, 95% of the time, ​you would expect to see and observe value of z-naught ​that's in that interval, -1.96 up to +1.96. ​So what about this value that we just calculated, -2.09? ​That's pretty unusual, isn't it, if the means are equal. ​This is a value that would only occur less than 5% of the time ​if the population means were equal. ​So this is a fairly strong indication that those means are not equal. ​You can find these z values from any standard normal table. ​This is a standard normal cumulative distribution table, and ​it plots values of z from 0 up to about 3.99. ​Most standard normal tables are organized like this one. ​They only give you areas to the left of positive z scores or positive z values. ​Now, that isn't really much of a problem, ​because the normal distribution is symmetric and so areas to ​the left of a negative z are the same as the areas to the right of a positive z. ​So it's very easy to actually use these tables to show ​you how I got that value of 1.96. ​Simply look at the table and ​scan the table until you find 1.96. ​Well, here's 1.96 right there. ​The 1.9 row and the .06 column. ​And if you look at the entry in the body of the table in 0.975, ​that is the probability or area to the left of 1.96 on the standard normal curve. ​So the upper alpha percentage point z of 0.025 would be 1- that. ​So that's the upper 2 1/2 percent point of the standard normal distribution. ​And you can use the normal table to calculate these probabilities, or ​to find these probabilities, or z score values very easily. ​So if the variances were known, what would we conclude? ​We would conclude that we should reject this null hypothesis, and ​a statistician would say we would reject this hypothesis, ​this null hypothesis at the 5% level of significance. ​Because the calculated value of -2.09 is outside the + or ​-1.96 range that corresponds to 5% significance. ​This is called a fixed significance level test. ​Because we compared the value of the test statistic to a critical value, in this ​case 1.96, that we typically select in advance before we run the experiment. ​And the standard normal distribution is called the reference distribution for ​this test. ​Now, there's another way to do this. ​It's very popular and it's called the P-value approach. ​The P-value is basically the observed actual significance level. ​And for the Z-test, it's really easy to find the P-value. ​And I'll show you how to do that next time. ​In the last class, we looked at a simple comparative experiment involving ​two different recipes or two different formulations of Portland cement mortar. ​And we saw that there might be an indication in the sample data ​that the tension bond strength was different in the two recipes. ​And I mentioned that we're going to use a statistical methods to try to ​investigate this conjecture. ​The framework that we typically use for ​solving these kinds of problems is called statistical hypothesis testing. ​The origins of this methodology, go back to the early 1900s and ​actually even before that. ​But it's a well-established technique and ​one that's highly useful in looking at data from planned experiments. ​Now, we're going to initially use a procedure called the two-sample t-test. ​But as we go through this material from from chapter 2 or ​module 2 of the course, we're going to look at a couple of variations of this ​two-sample t-test procedure. ​Here's a picture that tries to describe or ​were illustrate visually, the hypothesis testing framework. ​The two diagrams that you see at the top of the page here ​are probability distributions. ​And the probability distribution on the left represents ​the population of measurements from factor level 1 or treatment 1. ​And on the right, that's the population of measurements ​from factor level 2 or treatment level 2. ​In our problem, ​each of these represent a di: Added to Selection. Press [CTRL + S] to save as a note : Added to Selection. Press [CTRL + S] to save as a note : Added to Selection. Press [CTRL + S] to save as a note
